# CB11
House Price Prediction using Machine Learning
G.N.V.Sumanth
B.Ujwal
V.Avinash
The shelter is one of the three essential requirements of life. It protects an individual and makes him feel safe. Purchasing a house is a dream of every Indian, but sadly for many, it is not attainable. The rising prices of residential properties worry a ton of residents. People pay a fortune to buy their Dream House. Due to a lack of proper framework, prices have surged and thus the development of negative sentiment of the market. This is a concerning issue for many individuals as if not handled, buying a house will become impossible for many citizens of India. We aim to fill the gap by using machine learning to predict future prices of residential properties, which will help potential buyers to make informed purchasing decisions and buy their dream home at the right price. Thus, eliminating surge gains and promoting a healthy market. The real estate sector is the second employment generator after the agriculture sector in India. The real estate sector in India is expected to reach US$ 1 trillion by 2030. By 2025 [1], it will contribute 13% to the country's GDP (Gross domestic product). Rapid urbanization bodes well for the sector. The number of Indians living in urban areas is expected to reach 525 million by 2025 [1]. The residential segment contributes ~80% of the real estate sector. Demand for residential properties has surged. Key drivers for these are rapid urbanization, a rise in the number of nuclear families & Easy availability of finance. The Government has allowed FDI of up to 100% for townships and settlements development projects. Under the 'Housing for All' scheme, 20 million houses will be built by 2022, and the GST rate is brought down to 5%. Under Union Budget 2021-22, tax deduction up to Rs. 1.5 lakh (US$ 2069.89) on interest on housing loan.
dataset link- https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/amitabhajoy/bengaluru-house-price-data
